# Native Data Connector code generator

The NDC code generator provides a set of tools to develop data connectors quickly. It's suitable for developers who create connectors for business logic functions (or action in GraphQL Engine v2).

The generator is inspired by [ndc-typescript-deno](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-typescript-deno) and [ndc-nodejs-lambda](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-nodejs-lambda) that automatically infer TypeScript functions as NDC functions/procedures for use at runtime. It's possible to do this with Go via reflection. However, code generation is better for performance, type-safe, and no magic.

## Installation

- **Install from source**: To install with Go 1.19+:

```bash
go install github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-go/cmd/ndc-go-sdk@latest
```

## How to Use

```bash
❯ ndc-go-sdk -h
Usage: ndc-go-sdk <command>

Flags:
  -h, --help    Show context-sensitive help.

Commands:
  init --name=STRING --module=STRING
    Initialize an NDC connector boilerplate. For example:

        ndc-go-sdk init -n example -m github.com/foo/example

  generate
    Generate schema and implementation for the connector from functions.
```

### Initialize connector project

The `init` command generates a boilerplate project for connector development from [template](templates/new) with the following folder structure:

- `functions`: the folder contains query and mutation functions. The `generate` command will parse `.go` files in this folder.
- `types`: the folder contains reusable types such as `RawConfiguration`, `Configuration` and `State`.
- `connector.go`: parts of Connector methods, except `GetSchema`, `Query` and `Mutation` methods that will be generated by the `generate` command.
- `main.go`: the main function that runs the connector CLI.
- `go.mod`: the module file with required dependencies.
- `README.md`: the index README file.
- `Dockerfile`: the build template for Docker image.

The command requires names of connector and module. By default, the tool creates a new folder with the connector name. If you want to customize the path, or generate files in the current folder. use `--output` (`-o`) argument.

```bash
ndc-go-sdk init -n example -m github.com/foo/example -o .
```

### Generate queries and mutations

The `generate` command parses code in the `functions` folder, finds functions and types that are allowed to expose and generates following files:

- `schema.generated.json`: the generated connector schema in JSON format.
- `connector.generated.go`: implement `GetSchema`, `Query` and `Mutation` methods with exposed functions.

```bash
ndc-go-sdk generate
```

## How it works

### Functions

Functions which are allowed to expose as queries or mutations need to have `Function` or `Procedure` prefix in name. For example:

```go
// FunctionHello sends a hello message
func FunctionHello(ctx context.Context, state *types.State, arguments *HelloArguments) (*HelloResult, error)

// ProcedureCreateAuthor creates an author
func ProcedureCreateAuthor(ctx context.Context, state *types.State, arguments *CreateAuthorArguments) (*CreateAuthorResult, error)
```

Or use `@function` or `@procedure` comment tag:

```go
// Hello sends a hello message
// @function
func Hello(ctx context.Context, state *types.State, arguments *HelloArguments) (*HelloResult, error)

// CreateAuthor creates an author
// @procedure
func CreateAuthor(ctx context.Context, state *types.State, arguments *CreateAuthorArguments) (*CreateAuthorResult, error)

// you also can set the alias after the tag:

// Foo a bar
// @function bar
func Foo(ctx context.Context, state *types.State) (*FooResult, error)
```

Function and Procedure names will be formatted to `camelCase` by default.

> The generator detects comments by the nearby code position. It isn't perfectly accurate in some use cases. Prefix name in function is highly recommended.

A function must have 2 (no argument) or 3 parameters. `Context` and `State` are always present as 2 first parameters. The result is a tuple with a expected output and `error`.

> [Function](https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/functions.html) is a type of Query and [Procedure](https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/procedures.html) is a type of mutation. [Collection](https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/collections.html) is usually used for database queries so it isn't used for business logic.

### Types

The tool only infers arguments and result types of exposed functions to generate object type schemas:

- Argument type must be a struct with serializable properties.
- Result type can be a scalar, slice or struct.

#### Object Types

The tool can infer properties of the struct and generate [Object Type](https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/object-types.html) schema. The `json` tags will be read as properties name to be consistent with `JSON Marshaller` and `Unmarshaller`. For example, with the following type:

```go
type CreateAuthorResult struct {
	ID   int    `json:"id"`
	Name string `json:"name"`
}

// auto generated
// func (j CreateAuthorResult) ToMap() map[string]any {
//   return map[string]any{
//     "id": j.ID,
//     "name": j.Name,
//   }
// }
```

the schema will be:

```json
{
  "CreateAuthorResult": {
    "fields": {
      "id": {
        "type": {
          "name": "Int",
          "type": "named"
        }
      },
      "name": {
        "type": {
          "name": "String",
          "type": "named"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Scalar Types

**Supported types**

The basic scalar types supported are:

- `string` (NDC scalar type: `String`)
- `int`, `int8`, `int16`, `int32`, `int64`, `uint`, `uint8`, `uint16`, `uint32`, `uint64` (NDC scalar type: `Int`)
- `float32`, `float64` (NDC scalar type: `Float`)
- `bool` (NDC scalar type: `Boolean`)
- `time.Time` (NDC scalar type: `DateTime`, represented as an [ISO formatted](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toISOString) string in JSON)
- `time.Duration` (NDC scalar type: `Duration`, represented as a duration string in JSON)
- `github.com/google/uuid.UUID` (NDC scalar type: `UUID`, represented as an UUID string in JSON)

Alias scalar types will be inferred to the origin type in schema.

```go
// the scalar type in schema is still a `String`.
type Text string
```

If you want to define a custom scalar type, the type name must have a `Scalar` prefix or `@scalar` tag the comment. The generator doesn't care about the underlying type even it is a struct.

```go
type ScalarFoo struct {
  Bar string
}
// output: Foo
// auto generated
// func (j ScalarFoo) ScalarName() string {
//   return "Foo"
// }

// @scalar
type Tag struct {
  tag string
}
// output: Tag


// @scalar Bar
type Foo struct {}
// output: Bar
```

> The generator detects comments by the nearby position. It isn't perfectly accurate in some use cases. Prefix name in function is highly recommended.

For custom scalar, you must implement a method to decode `any` value so its data can be set when resolving request query arguments. `UnmarshalJSON` is used when encoding results.

```go
func (c *ScalarFoo) FromValue(value any) (err error) {
	c.Bar, err = utils.DecodeString(value)
	return
}
```

### Documentation

The tool parses comments of functions and types by the nearby code position to description properties in the schema. For example:

```go
// Creates an author
func ProcedureCreateAuthor(ctx context.Context, state *types.State, arguments *CreateAuthorArguments) (*CreateAuthorResult, error)

// {
//   "name": "createAuthor",
//   "description": "Creates an author",
//   ...
// }
```

### Example

See [example/codegen](../../example/codegen).
